---
name: Lenox Contra Dance
date: 2024-05-18T19:15
date_end: 2024-05-18T22:30
tzid: America/New_York
band: Kingfisher
bandURL: https://www.kingfisherband.com/
street: 65 Walker Street
city: Lenox MA
description: |+
  Workshop at 7:15PM  
  Dancing from 7:30–10:30PM
url: https://lenoxcontradance.org/
program:
  - - title: Al's Safeway Produce
      author: Robert Cromartie
    - title: Heartbeat Contra
      author: Don Flaherty
    - title: Summer Sunshine
      author: Paul Balliet
    - title: You Can Get There From Here
      author: Linda Leslie
    - title: Appetizer
      author: Scott Higgs
    - title: Maliza's Magical Mystery Motion
      author: Cary Ravits
  - - title: Monday
      author: Jim Hemphill
    - title: Fun Dance for Marjorie
      author: Bob Goldner
    - title: "Tica Tica Timing/Old Time Elixir #2"
      author: Dean Snipes/Linda Leslie
    - title: Airpants
      author: Lisa Greenleaf
    - title: Train Delay
      author: Maia McCormick
---

A somewhat a rough night, but not a disaster. There were a lot of beginners and due to sound check going over, I only had time for a ten minute workshop. I should have known to start with something dead simple, but I opted for "Al's" which was much too challenging for the crowd and we didn't quite recover for the entire first half. I kept thinking I had picked out a dance for the next slot that was easy enough to suit the crowd and being wrong. I finally hit the right note with "Appetizer" and got the confidence to attempt "Maliza's" as the closer, which worked well for two of three lines, but the third had a bit of a trainwreck.

A lot of the beginners were dancing with each other, which I noticed a little too late. I also undercounted the beginners, assuming some people were experienced, when it turned out they were not. If I had noticed this sooner I would have thrown a mixer into the first few dances to get them mixing more with the experienced dancers.

I think I hit more or less the right level for the second half. Fun Dance for Marjorie caused some concern, but never fell apart, and the rest ran smoothly. It was one more petronella dance than I would normally throw into an evening, but it's a figure with high energy that's easy and satisfying to do, so I went for one more with "Tica Tica."

I would have liked to be a bit more impressive for my Lenox debut, but with any luck they'll invite me back for a better performance.
