---
name: Glen Echo Friday Night Dance
date: 2024-12-20T20:00
date_end: 2024-12-20T23:00
tzid: America/New_York
band: Backstep Cindy
bandURL: https://backstepcindy.com/
street: 7300 MacArthur Blvd
city: Glen Echo MD
description: |+
  Workshop at 7:30PM  
  Dancing from 8:00–11:00PM
url: https://www.fridaynightdance.com/
program:
- - title: A-1 Reel
    author: Chris Weiler
    notes: Called as improper with a typical progression by starting in A2
  - title: "Tica Tica Timing/Old Time Elixir #2"
    author: Dean Snipes/Linda Leslie
  - title: Emma's Emergency
    author: Maia McCormick
  - title: Dosido And Face The Sides
    author: Ted Sanella
    type: Square
  - title: Rockin Robin
    author: Rick Mohr
  - title: Al's Safeway Produce
    author: Robert Cromartie
  - title: Train Delay
    author: Maia McCormick
- - title: Beneficial Tradition
    author: Dan Pearl
  - title: "Medley: Airpants, Delphiniums and Daisies, Tica Tica Timing/Old Time Elixir #2"
    author: Lisa Greenleaf, Tanya Rotenberg, Dean Snipes/Linda Leslie
  - title: Chris's Poetic Orangutan
    author: Yoyo Zhou
  - title: Mary Cay's Reel
    author: David Kaynor
---

A nice evening! A little sheepish that I only got 11 dances into a three hour evening, but I think I spent a lot of time getting beginners organized at the start and then I still took on two technique floor demos during the first half. Glen Echo is surprisingly uneffusive (limited applause and cheering) but another caller informed me during our waltz that that's just how the hall is and her general sense is people had a good time.

I may have pushed people a little too far with Beneficial Tradition – one line got it really well, hooting and all, but the other struggled the whole way through.

But in the end I got a lot of positive feedback on the zipper figure as well as my technique workshops, with some people commenting that they felt the room really was attentive to those matters of connection after I taught them.

I got a couple pieces of positive feedback that weren't addressed directly to me, increasing my read that they were genuine:

- A friend shared a screenshot from a Discord he's in of someone who attended the dance writing: "You didn't lie, it's freezing, but the caller is 10/10"
- Someone posted a comment in the Glen Echo Facebook group:
  
  > As usual, tremendous dance and the caller did an especially good job. I really liked the zipper and we should incorporate that into more dances more nights. The hash medley was also really good but these medleys do work better for experienced dancers than for newcomers. I also found people to be especially friendly last night (fewer bookaheads and 100% success rate finding partners) and I have no explanation for why but... I'll take it.
