---
name: Boston Intergenerational Dance Advocates
date: 2024-10-06T19:30
date_end: 2024-10-06T22:30
tzid: America/New_York
band: Countercurrent
street: 1950 Massachusetts Avenue
city: Cambridge MA
url: https://www.bidadance.org/
description: |+
  Workshop at 7:00PM  
  Dancing from 7:30–10:30PM
program:
- - title: Airpants
    author: Lisa Greenleaf
  - title: Adams Amble
    author: Linda Leslie
  - title: I'll Hold You In My Arms
    author: Maia McCormick
  - title: Emma's Emergency
    author: Maia McCormick
  - title: Barack Me, Obamadeus
    author: Maia McCormick
  - title: You Can Get There From Here
    author: Linda Leslie
  - title: Heartbeat Contra
    author: Don Flaherty
- - title: Wrinkled Ribbon
    author: Melanie Axel-Lute
  - title: Becky's Brouhaha
    author: Rhiannon Giddens
  - title: Waxmyrtle
    author: Yoyo Zhou
  - title: Train Delay
    author: Maia McCormick
---

This was a pretty good night. There were a lot of beginners as is often the case at BIDA and I had to scrap some of the trickier dances I had planned. Nevertheless I think my program worked pretty well and had some nice qualities—in particular, building up to a full hey gradually such that I didn't have to do a floor demo of it:

- Simple half hey with no obligatory looping on the sides in Emma's Emergency
- Half hey with obligatory larks looping in Barack Me, Obamadeus
- Full hey in Wrinkled Ribbon

Overall I got positive feedback on my teaching in this dance. I made some errors, but corrected them with humor, and had no showstopping errors. I ran the first half very long which maybe was a logistical error—and in the end got me one less dance in the second half, which caused me to sacrifice the mini medley, even though I think the room could have gotten through it.

Waxmyrtle worked a little less well at BIDA than it did at Greenfield two weeks prior. Countercurrent picked a first tune that had less clear phrasing, played it a little overly slow, and the BIDA dancers had less of a good sense of timing. I had to jump in mid-way through to prompt "In-2-3, out-2-3" during the balances.

One person reported to me that they felt I was overly long and didactic in my teaches, specifically saying "We've got the 10PM crowd, you don't need to teach that much." Someone else reported they didn't notice anything feeling too long and they thought more teaching was appropriate, given how many beginners stuck around.
