---
title: Dialing in PolyMaker PolyWood
date: 2024-04-06
categories: [Miscellany]
tags: ["3D printing", making]
# eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
xposts:
  - label: Mastodon
    url: TBD
  - label: Facebook
    url: TBD
---

[PolyMaker PolyWood][] is a 3D printing filament designed to be ultra-matte and mimic the appearance of wood filaments – plastics with wood particles mixed into the material – without the hassle of actual wood particles, which can cause nozzle clogging. It's also the filament that, in my limited time printing, I have had the most frustrating time trying to dial in.

[PolyMaker PolyWood]: https://www.polymaker.com/shop/polywood/

It's common when receiving a new filament to print some calibration prints to guide how you adjust your print settings. Calibration lets you learn the best settings for the combination of your printer and the filament you're using. Filaments often come with recommended ranges for most settings, but because of variation from printer to printer[^1] performing some calibration yourself helps with consistent results.

[SuperSlicer][] is a community maintained fork of [PrusaSlicer][], the official slicer from [Prusa][] – who also make [my printer][]. It has added features on top of PrusaSlicer, including the ability to generate some handy calibration models. However, because it is released less frequently than PrusaSlicer, it is a weird combination of both more feature-ful and less cutting edge. I tend to do calibration in SS and migrate those settings to PS where I do most of my slicing.

[SuperSlicer]: https://github.com/supermerill/SuperSlicer
[PrusaSlicer]: https://www.prusa3d.com/prusaslicer/
[Prusa]: https://www.prusa3d.com/
[my printer]: https://shop.prusa3d.com/en/3d-printers/180-original-prusa-mini.html

My usual calibration process is:

1. Print extrusion multiplier calibration chips (generated by SuperSlicer) in two rounds (coarse and fine-tuning) to dial in the extrusion multiplier – a factor that adjusts how much material gets pushed through the nozzle to extrude a line.
2. Print a temperature tower to dial in the temperature range that makes the filament strongest, creates the cleanest bridges and features, and has the least stringing.
3. Print a retraction test to dial in the retraction setting that minimizes stringing caused by filament oozing as the nozzle moves from one location to another.

My calibration process this time was:

I attempted to print the extrusion multiplier calibration chips, but struggle to get the print to stick to the bed within the advertised range of settings, despite washing the bed multiple times to ensure it's oil free and despite trying multiple bed temperatures within the recommended range of 30–50°C (quite low compared to other PLAs in the collection)[^2].

Finally the print stuck *tolerably* with the bed temperature at 60–65°C, well outside of the recommended range. Still pretty messy though and required some babysitting.

I printed two rounds of calibration chips resulting in a extrusion multiplier of 1.21 – quite a bit higher than almost any other filament I use. My best theory for why such a high value works here is: PolyWood achieves its matte effect by being a foamed plastic[^3] and therefore low density. When it gets pushed through the heated nozzle some of the foam collapses and the extruded plastic is higher density, resulting in less volume per length of filament pushed through.

I printed a temperature tower:

IMAGE

All of these temperatures look kind of rough, but I guess 200°C looks the least bad. You can also see that I *still* had some issues with a messy first layer.

Finally, I printed my retraction test:

IMAGE

There is no retraction level in a reasonable range on my extruder at which the filament is not stringy. I'm just going to have to choose prints to minimize nozzle travel and accept some post-processing work.

You might also notice in the background that I tried to print a *second* retraction test, but walked away from the printer too soon and didn't notice that it hadn't stuck to the bed, resulting in a string monster.

These are the settings I arrived at:

* Bed temp (first layer): 65°C
* Bed temp (other layers): 60°C
* Extruder temp (first layer): 205°C
* Extruder temp (other layers): 200°C
* Extrusion multiplier: 1.21

I also found that including a brim[^4] helps establish bed adhesion so as not to mess up the model itself. Printing more than two perimeters from the inside out also seems like it would be a good approach here.

Overall this is the fussiest filament I have worked with to date and was pretty frustrating to dial in. There's a couple other things I should probably try before writing it off completely: printing slower and drying the filament. I did notice that when I printed a couple parts on "quality" settings, which print slower, some of the stringing and adhesion issues were reduced, though not gone completely. This is usually a factor where I rely on the defaults, but possibly playing with it here would be fruitful. Drying filament can be helpful if the filament has absorbed moisture from the air. I'm somewhat skeptical of this, if only because it seems to be people's go to answer fore *every* problem you can have with a 3D print, and this filament is stored identically to my other filaments and doesn't show other signs of moisture, like popping and hissing when printing, but it's probably worth trying. Unfortunately I haven't bought a filament dryer yet, so that may need to wait until I do.

Ultimately I'm not even that taken in with the appearance and at $30 for a 600kg spool, it's a fair bit more expensive than other filaments I use (though, given lower density, this isn't a simple calculation). Unless drying or printing slower proves to be a groundbreaking change, I probably wouldn't buy another batch, but as long as I have this spool, I might as well see if I can make some things I like with it.

IMAGE

[^1]: And because recommendations from manufacturers are mixed in quality.
[^2]: One thing I didn't try that might have saved me the frustration is using an adhesive aid, like a glue stick. But I was unnecessarily stubborn about not wanting to use a glue stick this time for no other reason than "I've never needed one before."
[^3]: PolyMaker calls this their "Stabilized Foaming" technology.
[^4]: A single-layer moat of filament snugly surrounding the base of the model, which is trimmed off after the print is completed.
